README.md, before:

Live Broadcast Bundle
=====================

*This project is still in experimental phase and in no way production ready.
Usage should be limited to development work.*

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![SensioLabsInsight](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/6027a50f-06cf-4989-8267-9f481e838b2a/mini.png)](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/6027a50f-06cf-4989-8267-9f481e838b2a)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/v/unstable)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)

The Live Broadcast Bundle will make it possible to plan live streams to
various channels like Twitch, YouTube and Facebook (referred to as Output or Channels).

The basic "Input" will be a file that can be read. Other inputs will be created thereafter.

## Prerequisites

The Broadcaster needs a few commands;

* `ffmpeg`

On Linux:
* `ps`
* `kill`

On Mac:
* `ps`
* `grep`
* `kill`

On Windows:
* `tasklist`
* `taskkill`

To test these prerequisites the Symfony command `livebroadcaster:test:shell` can be used after the installation described below.

## Installation

### Step 1: Download Bundle

This bundle will be made available on Packagist. You can then install it using Composer:

```bash
$ composer require martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle
```

### Step 2: Enable the bundle

Next, enable the bundle in the kernel:

``` php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new Martin1982\LiveBroadcastBundle\LiveBroadcastBundle(),
    );
}
```

### Step 3: Update your database schema

Use doctrine to update your database schema with the broadcasting entities

### Step 4 (Sonata users only): Activate the Sonata Admin module

To make planning available through an admin interface it is recommended to use the Sonata Admin bundle.

### Step 5 (Optional): Start the broadcast!

To start a broadcast you can use a console command, you can add this to a cronjob to automate your broadcast schedule.

```bash
$ app/console livebroadcaster:broadcast
```

By default Facebook and YouTube are disabled, as they need extra config. To enable either one of these continue reading.

## Enabling Facebook Live

### Step 1: Create a Facebook App
Create a Facebook app on https://developers.facebook.com with the following permissions:

- user_videos
- user_events
- user_managed_groups
- manage_pages
- publish_actions
- Live-Video API

### Step 2: Edit your `app/config/config.yml` with the following configuration:
    live_broadcast:
        facebook:
            application_id: YourFacebookAppId
            application_secret: YourFacebookAppSecret

### Step 3: Load the app ID in Twig
    twig:
        globals:
            live_broadcast_facebook_app_id: 'YourFacebookAppId'

## Enabling YouTube Live

### Step 1: Request API access
Login to https://console.developers.google.com/ and enable the 'YouTube Data API v3'.

Setup oAuth Credentials for your server. In case you're using the Sonata Admin from this
bundle the redirect URI's path is `<your domain>/admin/channel/youtube/oauthprovider`

### Step 2: Add the YouTube API info to your config.yml:
    live_broadcast:
        youtube:
            client_id: YourGoogleOauthClientId
            client_secret: YourGoogleOauthClientSecret
            redirect_route: admin_martin1982_livebroadcast_channel_basechannel_youtubeoauth

### Step 3 (Sonata users only): Add the Sonata block to your blocks config:
    sonata_block:
        blocks:
        sonata.block.service.youtubeauth:
            contexts:   [admin]
             
## Add new output platforms

### Step 1: Create a new Channel Entity in Entity/Channel that extends the BaseChannel (e.g. ChannelNew)

### Step 2: Create a new StreamOutput service in Service/StreamOutput that implements the OutputInterface (e.g. OutputNew)

### Step 3: Configure the service with the output tag in Resources/config/services.yml
    live.broadcast.output.new:
        class: Martin1982\LiveBroadcastBundle\Service\StreamOutput\OutputNew
        tags:
            - { name: live.broadcast.output, platform: 'New' }

### Step 4: (Sonata users only) Add a new form for the Channel in Admin/ChannelAdmin.php
``` php
protected function configureFormFields(FormMapper $formMapper)
{
    if ($subject instanceof ChannelNew) {
        $formMapper->add('...', 'text', array('label' => '...'));
    }
}
```

### Step 5: (Sonata users only) Add the sub class for the channelAdmin in Resources/config/admin.yml for 
    sonata.admin.channel
        calls:
            - [setConfiguredSubclasses, [ { "Name": Martin1982\LiveBroadcastBundle\Entity\Channel\ChannelNew } ] ]

Commit message:

Add more about info to the readme
Fixes issue #53

README.md, after:

Live Broadcast Bundle
=====================

*This project is still in experimental phase and in no way production ready.
Usage should be limited to development work.*

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![SensioLabsInsight](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/6027a50f-06cf-4989-8267-9f481e838b2a/mini.png)](https://insight.sensiolabs.com/projects/6027a50f-06cf-4989-8267-9f481e838b2a)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/v/unstable)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle)

# About

The Live Broadcast Bundle will make it possible to plan live video streams to
various channels like Twitch, YouTube Live and Facebook Live (referred to as Output or Channels).

The basic "Input" will be a file or URL that will be streamed. Other inputs will be created thereafter.

For more info you can view the latest recorded presentation below, or read on;

[![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/axutXblArhM/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=axutXblArhM "High quality live broadcasting with PHP by @Martin1982 at @PHPamersfoort")

## Prerequisites

The Broadcaster needs a few commands;

* `ffmpeg`

On Linux:
* `ps`
* `kill`

On Mac:
* `ps`
* `grep`
* `kill`

On Windows:
* `tasklist`
* `taskkill`

To test these prerequisites the Symfony command `livebroadcaster:test:shell` can be used after the installation described below.

## Installation

### Step 1: Download Bundle

This bundle will be made available on Packagist. You can then install it using Composer:

```bash
$ composer require martin1982/live-broadcast-bundle
```

### Step 2: Enable the bundle

Next, enable the bundle in the kernel:

``` php
<?php
// app/AppKernel.php

public function registerBundles()
{
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new Martin1982\LiveBroadcastBundle\LiveBroadcastBundle(),
    );
}
```

### Step 3: Update your database schema

Use doctrine to update your database schema with the broadcasting entities

### Step 4 (Sonata users only): Activate the Sonata Admin module

To make planning available through an admin interface it is recommended to use the Sonata Admin bundle.

### Step 5 (Optional): Start the broadcast!

To start a broadcast you can use a console command, you can add this to a cronjob to automate your broadcast schedule.

```bash
$ app/console livebroadcaster:broadcast
```

By default Facebook and YouTube are disabled, as they need extra config. To enable either one of these continue reading.

## Enabling Facebook Live

### Step 1: Create a Facebook App
Create a Facebook app on https://developers.facebook.com with the following permissions:

- user_videos
- user_events
- user_managed_groups
- manage_pages
- publish_actions
- Live-Video API

### Step 2: Edit your `app/config/config.yml` with the following configuration:
    live_broadcast:
        facebook:
            application_id: YourFacebookAppId
            application_secret: YourFacebookAppSecret

### Step 3: Load the app ID in Twig
    twig:
        globals:
            live_broadcast_facebook_app_id: 'YourFacebookAppId'

## Enabling YouTube Live

### Step 1: Request API access
Login to https://console.developers.google.com/ and enable the 'YouTube Data API v3'.

Setup oAuth Credentials for your server. In case you're using the Sonata Admin from this
bundle the redirect URI's path is `<your domain>/admin/channel/youtube/oauthprovider`

### Step 2: Add the YouTube API info to your config.yml:
    live_broadcast:
        youtube:
            client_id: YourGoogleOauthClientId
            client_secret: YourGoogleOauthClientSecret
            redirect_route: admin_martin1982_livebroadcast_channel_basechannel_youtubeoauth

### Step 3 (Sonata users only): Add the Sonata block to your blocks config:
    sonata_block:
        blocks:
        sonata.block.service.youtubeauth:
            contexts:   [admin]
             
## Add new output platforms

### Step 1: Create a new Channel Entity in Entity/Channel that extends the BaseChannel (e.g. ChannelNew)

### Step 2: Create a new StreamOutput service in Service/StreamOutput that implements the OutputInterface (e.g. OutputNew)

### Step 3: Configure the service with the output tag in Resources/config/services.yml
    live.broadcast.output.new:
        class: Martin1982\LiveBroadcastBundle\Service\StreamOutput\OutputNew
        tags:
            - { name: live.broadcast.output, platform: 'New' }

### Step 4: (Sonata users only) Add a new form for the Channel in Admin/ChannelAdmin.php
``` php
protected function configureFormFields(FormMapper $formMapper)
{
    if ($subject instanceof ChannelNew) {
        $formMapper->add('...', 'text', array('label' => '...'));
    }
}
```

### Step 5: (Sonata users only) Add the sub class for the channelAdmin in Resources/config/admin.yml for 
    sonata.admin.channel
        calls:
            - [setConfiguredSubclasses, [ { "Name": Martin1982\LiveBroadcastBundle\Entity\Channel\ChannelNew } ] ]
